Nic: Hi, I'm Nic Steenhout, and this is The Work Between. This
Nic: podcast is recorded on the traditional, ancestral, and
Nic: unceded territory of the Stó:lō Coast Salish people, the people
Nic: of the river, whose presence in the Fraser Valley stretches back
Nic: of years I named this territory because it belongs
Nic: with what this show is about the ways we decide whose lives
Nic: are valued whose work is taken seriously and whose experiences
Nic: are treated as problems to be managed those decisions shape
Nic: everything this show sits inside that this is was and
Nic: always will be First Nations land that's not a formality
Nic: It's consistent with everything I and this show stand for. My
Nic: guest today is Dr. Alessandra Springman. I know her as Sondi.
Nic: Sondi is a planetary scientist with a PhD from the Lunar and
Nic: Planetary Laboratory at the University of Arizona. She spent
Nic: years studying asteroids and comets, and her work has
Nic: included the NASA OSIRIS-REx asteroid sample, returning
Nic: mission, and two years of planetary radar observation at
Nic: Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. She quilts. Her quilting
Nic: practice lives on Instagram at at intergalactic cactus. So
Nic: today we're talking about quilts, what draws her to the
Nic: work, and what making things by hand means when your
Nic: professional life is built around looking towards outer
Nic: space. Sondy, welcome to The Work Between.
Sondy: Thank you,
Nic: Now, for my listeners, I have to be open. Um Sondy and I go
Nic: way back and we've been talking about quilting a lot but let's
Nic: let's try and formalize things a little bit tell me a little bit
Nic: about your creative practice what is it that you do
Nic: obviously quilting but tell me more about that
Sondy: for the most part when I make quilts I am turning
Sondy: secondhand fabric into something more interesting than stuff that
Sondy: doesn't get sold at the thrift store that may wind up in a
Sondy: landfill. The project that I'm working on now is a lot of work
Sondy: shirts and work pants from an uncle figure of mine who's a
Sondy: contractor who builds boats, repairs boats. He met his wife
Sondy: while they were working at a boat yard. She was the manager
Sondy: and he rose up in the ranks because he could weld and he
Sondy: was smart um he's a he's a real uh he's so we were going through his
Sondy: clothes a couple years ago when I was staying um in a little
Sondy: cottage on their property and he was saying that he would love
Sondy: a quilt made from secondhand shirts because it was it would
Sondy: be soft I said okay richard um so here we are almost two
Sondy: years later and it's been a really fun way to figure out
Sondy: how do you take something you know how do you take a set of
Sondy: half a dozen work shirts and carhartt pants all made of
Sondy: canvas and denim and other tough materials and make them make
Sondy: them something soft and how do you arrange them in an
Sondy: pleasing way and how do you do it in a way that
Sondy: doesn't make you want to lose your mind, or if you are going
Sondy: to lose your mind, providing for losing your mind
Sondy: in the process. So I'm doing something called quilt as you
Sondy: go, which involves cutting out the batting for each little part
Sondy: of the quilt before hand, rather than sewing the top of the
Sondy: quilt, sewing the back of the quilt, and then sewing the top
Sondy: of the quilt, the batting and the back of the quilt together
Sondy: in uh one big sandwich and so for this I'm making tiny little
Sondy: hexagon sandwiches and rather than lose my mind cutting out
Sondy: each hexagon of batting and fabric uh by myself by hand I went
Sondy: to the library makerspace and used the laser cutter to laser
Sondy: cut the batting into hexagons and to laser cut his uh denim work
Sondy: pants and work shirts into in canvas work pants and work
Sondy: shirts into hexagons so I didn't ruin all my uh cutting tools
Sondy: at home so it's been a fun way to you know take something as
Sondy: mundane as you know the clothes off his back but you
Sondy: know clothes that have been well loved and some of them have fun
Sondy: paint stains and some of them you know there's the fading
Sondy: that's really interesting under the seams uh men's work shirts
Sondy: often have like a little I think it's a pleat at the back
Sondy: of the neck and so the that area under that doesn't fade as
Sondy: much as the rest of the shirt. So I've managed to capture that
Sondy: in a few places. So I think it's a really fun way to take
Sondy: something, you know, like his, you know, these clothes that
Sondy: are such a fundamental part of us, you know, they're close to
Sondy: our heart, we wear them out, and they sort of fade into the
Sondy: woodwork, and to turn them into something soft, something
Sondy: comforting, and something that will, you know, keep him warm.
Nic: how do you take something that's not inherently soft like
Nic: denim or or work canvas and make it into something soft and cozy
Sondy: first of all you give those garments to someone who
Sondy: will wear them until they are worn out and they have been
Sondy: washed so many times that they are incredibly soft on their
Sondy: own and then one of the things I have figured out in quilting
Sondy: is if your fabric is ugly or if your fabric is otherwise too
Sondy: much if you cut it small enough it suddenly is less ugly
Sondy: or less firm so having these um pieces of you know canvas
Sondy: carhartt work pants cut to hexagons that are about six
Sondy: inches tall makes it much easier to have them be soft and the
Sondy: whole quilt isn't denim or canvas there's a lot of um there's
Sondy: thrift store shirts there's shirts from friends there's
Sondy: some corduroy pants in here there's quilting cotton all the
Sondy: backs the hexagons are quilting cottons so there's a
Sondy: huge variety so if you don't have the hard things dominating
Sondy: your quilt you can get away with a lot
Nic: how did you learn quilting
Sondy: well in 2020 uh in march 2020 when my roommate at the
Sondy: time and I were like well we're at home what do we do
Sondy: with ourselves she had gone to fashion design school. And so
Sondy: she had been an accomplished sewist. She had done costume
Sondy: design in New York, including Broadway musicals. And so she
Sondy: was, she was very competent. And so we said, let's sew some
Sondy: masks. And I thought I knew how to sew. I'd, you know, done some
Sondy: basic garment sewing. I'd sewed my prom dress in high school.
Sondy: And, you know, after I borrowed a sewing machine from a friend
Sondy: and Carrie looks at my sewing and she, you know, you can tell
Sondy: the thoughts are going through her head. Like, wow, Sondy, you
Sondy: think you could sew? That's a really nice idea you
Sondy: have there. But she taught me kind of how to sew as an adult
Sondy: rather than seat of the pants sewing that my mother had taught
Sondy: me. And once you do something hundreds of times, and we sewed
Sondy: 500 masks. I had a spreadsheet tracking all this. Once you do
Sondy: something hundreds of times, you get decent at it. So I sort of
Sondy: got more consistent with my pinning, got more consistent
Sondy: with stitching, learned some binding, learned all sorts of
Sondy: things, learned some very silly couture techniques, which I've
Sondy: never really used since, but it's good to know that they
Sondy: exist. And, you know, after it became clear that supply chains
Sondy: had resolved themselves and we could get good N95 masks. Again, I
Sondy: had all the scrap fabric left. And one of my friends in town
Sondy: was an astronomer who was moving to a job at an observatory in
Sondy: Hawaii, and she was downsizing. And she gave me a bunch of
Sondy: fabric that I didn't realize was like fancy designer quilting
Sondy: fabric until I had all these scraps sitting around and said,
Sondy: what should I do with them? Uh, and I'm, I'm Jewish, but you know,
Sondy: most of my friends are celebrate Christmas. And I decided to make
Sondy: a Christmas stocking for a friend out of these scraps and
Sondy: didn't quite realize that what I was doing was quilting until I
Sondy: had done it and realized, Oh, this is, this is quilting. I
Sondy: should, I should learn more about this. So I went to the
Sondy: library and I went to the shelf of the library that had quilting
Sondy: books. And I this was you know a neighborhood branch it
Sondy: wasn't the main branch and I grabbed the five most
Sondy: interesting books out of six that they had on the shelf and
Sondy: I took them home and I found one by Blair Stocker called
Sondy: Wisecraft Quilts and she turns fabrics into meaningful
Sondy: patchwork and I read this book you know I opened this book I
Sondy: read her philosophy and I turned a few pages in and I saw
Sondy: this quilt where she was using the value or the brightness of
Sondy: fabrics rather than the color or the pattern to dictate the
Sondy: pattern dictate the layout of the quilt and I was completely
Sondy: sold and probably within within three weeks of making that
Sondy: Christmas stocking I had put an alert on Craigslist for sewing
Sondy: machines at estate sales and yard sales I had driven 45
Sondy: minutes down to a suburb of Tucson. I threw elbows. I got a
Sondy: gigantic Janome sewing machine that Ginger Downing had
Sondy: spent like $2,600 on new that I got for $600. And it came with all
Sondy: the accessories. And I have sewn so much on that machine since.
Sondy: And I've made some pretty cool quilts, if I don't say so
Sondy: myself. It's been really fun to finally feel like
Sondy: I have a creative practice. Both of my parents are artists my
Sondy: mom has done oil painting and acrylic uh big big canvases she's
Sondy: done some mixed media but she really sticks to like big
Sondy: abstract acrylic canvas works my dad was a portrait
Sondy: photographer for most of his career he photographed Georgia
Sondy: O'Keeffe in 1974 at Ghost Ranch so he's you know so my
Sondy: mother's father was an animator her mother was an illustrator
Sondy: my dad's mother sewed and she crocheted and she knitted so
Sondy: you know I come from this family of creatives and I'd
Sondy: never really done anything regularly and I think everyone
Sondy: was sort of like sitting around waiting for me to do something
Sondy: consistently so when I finally started quilting I think
Sondy: everyone I think my mom in particular breathed a sigh of
Sondy: relief and four months after I started quilting she came to
Sondy: visit me in Tucson and I was picking up my sewing machine
Sondy: from being serviced at the, um, the sewing machine store and she
Sondy: paid for it. And she's like, no, I want to encourage this. So it's
Sondy: been, it's been cool to get into quilting. It's been cool to find
Sondy: out how many people around me quilt or know someone who
Sondy: quilts, uh, you know, someone's mom tried quilting and she gave me
Sondy: the, what they call a pig, a project in a grocery bag of her
Sondy: first attempt at quilting and she decided she didn't like
Sondy: quilting after she'd started that. And I looked at what she'd
Sondy: done and I said, yeah, of course you didn't like
Sondy: quilting, Pat. You were not, no one taught you how to do this
Sondy: properly. No one taught you how to cut your fabric properly. Of
Sondy: course you hated this. So, you know, it's fun. And then I've
Sondy: moved up to Boulder a few years ago and through a desperate
Sondy: post on the Young and Millennial Quilters Facebook group, found a
Sondy: wonderful long arm quilter up here and joined the Boulder
Sondy: Modern Quilt Guild. And it's been great to meet other people
Sondy: who are really interested in secondhand materials quilting.
Sondy: There's one guy in the Quilt Guild, Elu Hernandez, who's a bit
Sondy: of a big deal making quilt set of reclaimed jeans. And so he's
Sondy: been really encouraging about this project. And there was a
Sondy: Quilt Guild open sew and he said, give me seven of those
Sondy: hexagons. I want to take them home to sew them together for
Sondy: you. So he took seven of the 188 hexagon pieces and sewed them
Sondy: together. So now I get to add his name to this quilt. So it's
Sondy: been really fun to learn this, to find the community,
Sondy: community. I try to read a lot, you know, random quilt
Sondy: books, blogs. The Facebook group has been fabulous and
Sondy: educational. There's a lot of Facebook groups that are badly
Sondy: moderated or that tolerate very bad politics and behavior from
Sondy: their members. And this Facebook group is, I would say, it's one
Sondy: of the things that keeps me vaguely active on
Sondy: Facebook. And by vaguely active, I mean logging in twice a month to ask
Sondy: a question or see posts there. So I've enjoyed the community.
Sondy: I've enjoyed being able to make things.
Nic: I want to come back to community in a little bit, But
Nic: before we explore that, I want to talk influences. Obviously,
Nic: your family background is very much into creativity, but it
Nic: sounds like nobody really quilts. Have they?
Sondy: My dad has started quilting in the last few years.
Nic: As a follow up on what you're doing, right? So the
Nic: influence into quilting from their creative and artistic
Nic: endeavors, has that tickled through or is just, tell me
Nic: about that relationship.
Sondy: I think it's interesting because my mother
Sondy: loves color. She loves reds and oranges and
Sondy: yellows and she loves her blues and her greens and things of
Sondy: that nature. But my mother doesn't really think about value
Sondy: in her her paintings she doesn't think about the contrast
Sondy: between colors she just says you know she's a very intuitive
Sondy: painter and you know she went to she I think she went to art
Sondy: school for a little bit she had some um post-college art education
Sondy: so I know you know I know she's familiar with color
Sondy: theory I know she's familiar with value and contrast and
Sondy: tints and tones and shades and all that um but she you know I
Sondy: she knows all that but it's all you know in her heart at this
Sondy: point we've talked about sort of like patterns and scale but
Sondy: you know she she creates with paint she creates very
Sondy: fundamental she creates in a very fundamental way with paint
Sondy: whereas you know I'm using things that already exist and
Sondy: I'll look around you know at the fabric and say hmm this
Sondy: would be good for this I think it's a very different creative
Sondy: process than than what my mom does and I have some of the
Sondy: fabrics that her mother designed as an illustrator for the launch of
Sondy: salzburg in los angeles and I'm like a lot of this stuff is
Sondy: just like not it's just not interesting to me like I can't
Sondy: figure out what to do with it but I hold on to it because
Nic: because it's fabric right how how can you not hang on to
Nic: fabric and stuff
Sondy: it's the great thing about having a quilt guild and a
Sondy: center for creative reuse in boulder is that I can just bring
Sondy: fabric to quilt guild and say hey who wants this or bring
Sondy: fabric to the center for creative reuse
Nic: that quilt guild uh you're part of that as a community
Nic: what does that connection do for you
Sondy: for one thing uh this hexagon quilt that I'm working
Sondy: on that I started just under two years ago. I started working
Sondy: on it at an open sew and L.U. Was enchanted by the process. I
Sondy: don't think he was really familiar with doing hexagons for
Sondy: quilt as you go. And then I let it sit for a while because it
Sondy: was parts of it that were frustrating and I hadn't quite
Sondy: figured out how to mitigate the frustrating. And at some point
Sondy: in the last year, LU asked hey how's that hexagon quilt
Sondy: going and I kind of grumbled at him and so I started working on
Sondy: the hexagons again so it's been really nice to have
Sondy: encouragement uh it's been really nice to have feedback when I
Sondy: need feedback it's been nice to have a smaller place to ask for
Sondy: smaller scale advice there's now a couple of us who have been
Sondy: inducted into the singer featherweight cult though uh I think all
Sondy: of us have one featherweight so we're not really cultists
Nic: you ever have enough featherweights
Sondy: I don't know I take issue with like I've got 10
Sondy: featherweights and I sew on none of them like get them out
Sondy: in the ecosystem folks say they uh they need to they need to
Sondy: be used so for folks who are not familiar with singer
Sondy: featherweights Singer made these lovely little
Sondy: sewing machines between the 1930s and the 1960s. And they are
Sondy: mechanical. They draw 0.7 amps, less if you put an
Sondy: LED bulb in them. I mean, they draw less current than your
Sondy: phone does when it charges. And they are, some of them have been
Sondy: running for 90 years. If you keep servicing them and keep
Sondy: putting oil and grease on them, they will run for another 90
Sondy: years. I mean, they are the most robust little
Sondy: machines. And I like to say that they are the most heterosexual
Sondy: sewing machines of all time, because you will not find a
Sondy: straighter stitch on any other sewing machine. So it's been
Sondy: fun to learn the basics of featherweight maintenance
Sondy: and where to grease and where to oil and how to
Sondy: clean things with kerosene and how to adjust the timing and
Sondy: what has changed in the intervening uh 81 years since my
Sondy: sewing machine has been made and what has not in you know
Sondy: what remains the same between this machine and modern
Sondy: machines like the needle that this machine uses it's the same
Sondy: needle that modern machines do
Nic: yeah
Sondy: the bobbin case okay yeah bobbin cases are very
Sondy: particular on the featherweights but modern machines are
Sondy: very similar into how that all works. So it's just a really
Sondy: cool way to sort of fundamentally understand how
Sondy: sewing machines have evolved and haven't evolved and how to use
Sondy: them. And I feel like it informs better how I use my
Sondy: machine that was made 15 years ago. And yeah, it's nice to have
Sondy: more technical understanding of how a sewing machine works and
Sondy: how to adjust it and how to tune
Nic: it well we're talking about equipment but one thing I'm
Nic: curious about is um what does your workspace tells you about
Nic: yourself that you didn't really decide it kind of involved or
Nic: arrived at
Sondy: so I I've got some lower back stuff from uh being rear-ended
Sondy: twice while driving my car So I have figured out that standing
Sondy: for machine sewing is best for my ergonomics. I have also
Sondy: discovered that since getting a heart rate tracker about nine
Sondy: months ago, that standing to sew also does really goofy things to
Sondy: my heart rate. I don't know if it's a POTS thing because I can
Sondy: walk like three or four miles a day, no problem. But it's the
Sondy: standing that seems to just not agree with heart rate stuff,
Sondy: which is fascinating or that like stand sewing is just like
Sondy: a stressful thing is, you know, it's, it's creative, but it's
Sondy: like, am I just sort of like going into like, you know, high
Sondy: stress focus mode to do this? So that requires more,
Sondy: experimentation and investigation, but I've now
Sondy: gotten to the point where all these hexagons have been, I've
Sondy: done everything I need to do for the hexagons themselves to
Sondy: machine sew them. Now I'm joining them by hand, all
Sondy: seams of them and that can be done on the couch it can be
Sondy: done at my partner's wood shop it can be done uh at parties it
Sondy: you know it's a very portable task in that regard so that's
Sondy: been cool and it's also like okay I will not be worsening my
Sondy: heart rate while I do this part of this project I will have to
Sondy: stand to sew to do the machine binding but it's also just a
Sondy: nice way to slow down a bit and kind of figure out how do I do
Sondy: hand sewing because I've never been interested in doing hand
Sondy: sewing I've always found it annoying but when you do
Sondy: something uh you know 127 times you you get a little better at
Nic: it you could always hand stitch the binding
Sondy: I don't I'm really bad at sewing straight like sewing
Sondy: like long straight lines whip stitching to join hexagons is is
Sondy: fine uh because you've already got the straight line there but I
Sondy: don't know I guess I could try it but I feel like that would
Sondy: just be when it comes to putting binding on a quilt I'm just
Sondy: like get me through this let's just go like
Nic: final mile final get it out
Sondy: and uh I know richard probably will not listen to
Sondy: this but I know that richard will never um he will never wash
Sondy: this quilt and a lot of the fabrics you know there's some
Sondy: like a thrift store skirt that had boats on it and a few other
Sondy: ones that I'm like yeah this would be fun to include but
Sondy: it's way too light and I got some indigo dye and did indigo
Sondy: dyeing last year to darken some of these fabrics and so the fabric
Sondy: I have I'd gotten in Ghana for uh and had originally given to his
Sondy: wife Millie but you know they were never going to use it and
Sondy: so I'm like oh I have an idea of what to do with it but it's
Sondy: kind of a like a medium light sky blue with like a darker vine
Sondy: print on it and so I've been darkening that with indigo with
Sondy: the idea of using it for the binding because the binding of
Sondy: the quilt is part of the quilt that is used the most and gets
Sondy: like all of your oils from your fingers on it from like pulling
Sondy: it and touching it and I don't like fighting reality right
Sondy: like I accept that gravity is is a thing I don't like to fight
Sondy: gravity unless well there are circumstances in which I have
Sondy: successfully fought gravity and won we can we can get back to
Sondy: that one um so I like making sure that the bindings of my quilts
Sondy: are dark so that they don't show as much finger oil
Sondy: don't need to be washed as often
Nic: if it comes down to a choice between working alone on
Nic: a quilting project and working in a group what what's your
Nic: preference why
Sondy: so another march 2020 thing that I started was a zoom
Sondy: crafting group uh so rather than it being stitch and bitch I
Sondy: named it loom and zoom and here we are six years and uh a month
Sondy: and seven days later and we are still going twice a week on
Sondy: zoom where we work on crafting projects together we have a
Sondy: group chat where we talk about ideas so for me really up
Sondy: until I moved to boulder and joined this quilt guild
Sondy: quilting sewing whatever was not really a in-person social
Sondy: event um but you know I still I still like hanging out on zoom
Sondy: to do things with folks and now I can have a project that is
Sondy: portable I can take it places there is a hand sewing group
Sondy: that the quilt guild has I think they meet in coffee shops
Sondy: and so now I'm kind of like huh I should make sure I have a
Sondy: hand hand sewing project at all times and the quilt guild open
Sondy: sews those are fun I've really enjoyed those I'm the only
Sondy: person masked them but that's fine and now that I have a
Sondy: it's much easier to bring a sewing machine to
Sondy: them than to haul like all 26 pounds of my main sewing machine
Sondy: downstairs in the car take it over to the community center
Nic: I'm gonna ask you about your relationship with
Nic: disability you you mentioned a few things you mentioned pots you
Nic: mentioned um chronic back issues so what's your disability
Nic: what's your relationship to that
Sondy: for I have had ibd for over 20 years I have got you
Sondy: know another fun constellation of other other things you
Sondy: know laryngopharyngeal reflux and interstitial cystitis and
Sondy: some lower back stuff from, uh, drivers in Tucson. Um, I deal with
Sondy: headaches. I deal with some joint stuff and RSI stuff. Um, so
Sondy: for like half, half of my life, I've been dealing with, living
Sondy: with chronic illness and some form of disability. And I have
Sondy: found that most of my friends are disabled, have some sort of
Sondy: disability of one type or another. A lot of my friends
Sondy: have a chronic illness or deal with chronic illness. There's
Sondy: someone at Quilt Guild who, you know, I've interacted with her
Sondy: very briefly twice and she says she doesn't drive. And I'm
Sondy: like, huh, that's interesting. You know, there's so many
Sondy: reasons that a person may want to drive, whether it's from
Sondy: disability or from a moral perspective. And I'm like,
Sondy: I kind of want to get to know you better because you've
Sondy: thought about this. You've made a decision that runs contrary to
Sondy: what the rest of the world expects or experiences. That, you
Sondy: know, huh, interesting. And so that's one of the things that
Sondy: I really appreciate about disability communities is
Sondy: that disabled people have thought about how they move
Sondy: through the world, how they interact with the world and
Sondy: whether it's their choice or otherwise they they have had
Sondy: to think deeply about sort of the fundamental tenants that
Sondy: society uh expects and that's something I really appreciate
Sondy: about disability community
Nic: yeah that's funny you say that I was I was gonna ask
Nic: you um I was gonna to say some people argue that navigating a world
Nic: not built for you produces a kind of creative thinking and
Nic: do you think that connects to your practice or is that just
Nic: too neat a framing but you mentioning getting to meet and
Nic: talk to people that have been doing that kind of thinking
Nic: before Or leads me to think that, yeah, maybe it works for you?
Sondy: I think I've, at least for quilting, I'm someone
Sondy: who likes, I like solving problems in interesting ways. Or
Sondy: I've done sort of enough thinking from reading, you know,
Sondy: reading about color theory or value quilting. Or like looking
Sondy: at a stack of fabric and being like, what can I do with this?
Sondy: This is the project in the grocery bag. This is the pig
Sondy: fabric that was given to me by the friend's mom who decided
Sondy: she didn't like quilting and for some people they see what I
Sondy: wind up doing and they're like wow that's wild like how can
Sondy: you look how can you look at these strips of these fabrics
Sondy: and turn them into you know this thing I'm like well
Sondy: I've been thinking about value and contrast for a while and
Sondy: like what what combinations of fabrics you would need to have
Sondy: you know to make something effective out of to make this
Sondy: particular thing and have it be effective and so people don't
Sondy: necessarily see all of that like thinking and experimenting
Sondy: and work that goes into producing something that looks
Sondy: really cool but also you know folks in the quilt field being
Sondy: like I don't understand how your brain works that you can
Sondy: have these, you know, go from this step to that step. And I'm
Sondy: like, oh, there were a lot of steps in between and a lot of
Sondy: frustration. There was a lot of experimenting. There was a lot
Sondy: of banging my head against the wall and being frustrated that
Sondy: I put all this effort into this thing and then abandoned it.
Sondy: But, you know, two years later, coming back to it in a
Sondy: completely different way no one sees all those experimental
Sondy: steps that led up
Nic: to
Sondy: it and you know for this hexagon quilt you know
Sondy: figuring out oh yeah I've used the laser cutter a couple of
Sondy: times at the library makerspace including for a really cool
Sondy: quilt that I made for a mutual friend of nick's and mine so
Sondy: you know had some precedent you know there'd been some
Sondy: in my life for doing laser cutting for quilting so
Sondy: you know there's there's a lot of work that people haven't
Sondy: necessarily seen that leads up to my current creative way of
Sondy: moving through the world you know it comes from like
Sondy: going to the there's a the colorado quilting council puts
Sondy: on a quilt affair once a year and someone was doing a demo of
Sondy: her reverse applique system and you know sitting there watching
Sondy: her do this and I was like I don't I need to make a quilt
Sondy: that has Chinese characters in it but I don't want to do any
Sondy: of this by hand and I'm watching her do this reverse
Sondy: applique and I you know figured out from what I knew
Sondy: about laser cutting and her reverse applique method that I
Sondy: could do this could have a laser cutter do a couple of
Sondy: steps for me and not have to worry about figuring out a bunch
Sondy: of stuff by hand and having it look not the way I wanted it to
Sondy: look so it's um yeah it's been fun in that regard to figure out
Sondy: how to put a bunch of disparate things together and also kind
Sondy: of fun to see people just blown away by the end result
Nic: I like this contrast between Sondy is using a nearly
Nic: 100 year old featherweight singer's sewing machine and is
Nic: using the latest laser cutting technology I think that's
Nic: that's just awesome Sondy are you a disabled quilter or are
Nic: you a quilter who happens to be disabled
Sondy: I think I'm a disabled quilter uh I'm always trying to
Sondy: find more ergonomic ways to do things I'm very aware of how
Sondy: the ergonomics of pretty much any fiber art are awful doesn't
Sondy: matter what you're doing you know is it knitting is it
Sondy: crocheting is it uh needle you know needlepoint needlework
Sondy: is it cross stitch is sewing on a machine all of this is bad
Sondy: it you know you're hunched over on your machine some
Sondy: people put wedges under their machine to tilt it up a bit but
Sondy: I like having the big extension table off the side of my
Sondy: machine so like having the machine tilted up doesn't like
Sondy: creates this other problem so I feel like you can't really
Sondy: fundamentally separate how I quilt from my being disabled
Sondy: and yeah this heart rate stuff this is interesting um I don't
Sondy: really have a provider I can talk about this with but I
Sondy: don't know I guess I I guess I need to ask around and see what
Sondy: what other people experience
Nic: what are you trying to get better at right now
Sondy: I'm trying to get better at being consistent and doing
Sondy: things at a sustainable pace um for me it's sort of this like
Sondy: this boom bust cycles of doing things now that I feel like
Sondy: I've gotten to the point where, you know, 24, 23% of the way
Sondy: through sewing these hexagons together, I'm just like, I just
Sondy: want to crank them out. I just want to get them done. I want to
Sondy: get them out the door. Like, let's go. And that's, you know,
Sondy: after like months of not doing anything, you know, then I'm
Sondy: like staying up past midnight hand sewing and I'm like it's not
Sondy: not great yeah I've got this other quilt that I've like should
Sondy: be working on I'm like trying to get back to but like
Sondy: you know it's like okay well I need to deal with this well
Sondy: that means dealing with that and then you're like five steps
Sondy: away from the original issue and it's like that's so
Sondy: be nice to consistently show up and do work without it sort of
Sondy: being too much or not at all. Yesterday I was up at my
Sondy: partner's woodshop hand sewing, and he always likes
Sondy: having a body double there to kind of keep him on task. And I
Sondy: was saying, hey, is it helpful having me here? He says, well,
Sondy: you know, I'm pretty locked in on this task I'm doing. You
Sondy: know, I think I would have been doing it and stayed
Sondy: focused on it even if you weren't here. You know, but it's
Sondy: nice it's nice to have company uh and he asked you know is this
Sondy: helpful for you and I'm like well I'm not trying to make a
Sondy: living off of my quilts necessarily
Nic: yeah
Sondy: but you know it's like I really should be cleaning the
Sondy: house I should be doing physical therapy I should be
Sondy: doing should be like cooking more meals I should you know
Sondy: I should be tidying the sewing room which is just devolved
Sondy: into chaos uh yeah there's a whole bunch of things I should
Sondy: be doing and well okay we're gonna we're in a boom we're
Sondy: in the boom part of the cycle uh that's just how it's going
Sondy: there will be times when I'm in the bust
Nic: it seems like you're you're working in cycles
Nic: Do those cycles relate to either feeling stuck and then kind of
Nic: not abandoning but slowing down or, you know, hey, it's going
Nic: well, let's get things accomplished while it's going
Nic: well? Or is it something unrelated to that that
Nic: dictates the boom-bust, quick, slow approach?
Sondy: sometimes it's related to disability in october we
Sondy: doing botox injections for this headache and I got the fun
Sondy: reaction of uh my so when you do botox sometimes your neck
Sondy: muscles are like whoa whoa whoa what my head is so heavy
Sondy: and your head is the same weight your neck muscles are
Sondy: just responding completely differently. So I got all of
Sondy: this like neck perceived neck muscle weakness that caused
Sondy: tremendous pain if I bent my head forward for more than like
Sondy: a little bit at a time. And that was really terrible. And I
Sondy: couldn't machine sew. And I'd been kind of like okay yeah
Sondy: let's get back to machine sewing um but fortunately
Sondy: fortunately uh the guy who had serviced my sewing machine had
Sondy: screwed something up so I couldn't sew until that got
Sondy: fixed
Nic: right
Sondy: and I couldn't sew because of my neck um and so
Sondy: like yeah that really sucked but there was like that in
Sondy: combination with something else was not not the worst
Nic: has making the work the quilting has it made it harder
Nic: rather than easier so you know you're you're making these quilts
Nic: you've you've had uh the the botox and and you've had barriers but
Nic: you're also keeping at it so I'm I'm assuming doing the work the
Nic: quilting is is actually somehow making your life easier in some
Nic: ways but has it also made it harder
Sondy: yeah I think you know there's definitely the times
Sondy: where it's like oh look I'm staying up too late hand sewing
Sondy: or I'm getting distracted by this to the uh I'm getting
Sondy: distracted by this and it's you know negatively affecting
Sondy: other things in my life um I mostly buy secondhand fabric or
Sondy: I inherit fabric or I you know given fabric so spending
Sondy: money on this hobby isn't necessarily a problem
Sondy: especially since I make t-shirt quilts for friends occasionally
Sondy: and you know that helps subsidize things so yeah like
Sondy: the ergonomics of hand sewing right now you know like having
Sondy: like poked myself in the finger so many times or like how it's
Sondy: worsening this really thick callus on my thumb which means
Sondy: that like the sense you know the nerves are now like having a
Sondy: hard time it's like okay yeah the sensitivity of like
Sondy: the left side of my or the outside edge of my dominant
Sondy: hands thumb is like having an issue um or like oh I should
Sondy: really be doing pt but look at me I'm sewing instead I'd had
Sondy: ankle surgery last year and was like finally out of the boot
Sondy: and probably should have had the boot on but like my sewing
Sondy: machine had been on the floor and I'm like okay I'm gonna
Sondy: lift it up and put on the table and I'm like should I
Sondy: have been lifting 26 pounds at that point
Nic: yeah
Sondy: probably not it could have been much worse I guess
Sondy: but it's um I guess for the most part sewing has generally been a
Sondy: positive thing because it really felt like before the pandemic
Sondy: started in 2020 that I didn't I was never getting enough done as
Sondy: a grad student that I was always uh not productive enough to
Sondy: have hobbies and that was really a time where it's like
Sondy: yeah no one's getting anything done like having a hobby
Sondy: having a hobby that involves like sewing masks socially
Sondy: great keep up the good work you know it was
Sondy: like oh I'm not gonna get anything done I'm gonna go for
Sondy: a hike and I'm not gonna feel guilty about it so I
Sondy: think for the most part sewing has been generally a positive
Sondy: thing in my life and has not been too detrimental damaging
Sondy: or distracting from other things.
Nic: Have you ever made something you regret making?
Sondy: I've certainly started projects where I'm like, I don't...
Sondy: Do I really want to finish this? Do I really want to get
Sondy: back to this? Okay, if I was starting this now, I would make
Sondy: all these different choices. So that's definitely been, been the
Sondy: case for some, some things.
Nic: You could always just shove it all in a bag and give it to
Nic: somebody else.
Sondy: Yeah. Okay. I do, I do regret one thing. I had a friend
Sondy: in town who moved nine months ago, coincidentally when this
Sondy: headache started. And anyway, the move, the move was a
Sondy: shipwreck of epic proportions. And before she was moving, I'm
Sondy: like, Hey, I'll, I'll make a t-shirt quilt for you and so I've like
Sondy: stabilized all these shirts of hers I've cut some of them out
Sondy: she even like came to the library makerspace and helped me
Sondy: with some of the stabilizing and cutting and now I'm just like
Sondy: ah darn it what do I do with these they're like all in a
Sondy: bin plastic storage bin like shoved under you know like on
Sondy: the bottom of a shelf in a cabinet where like I can't
Sondy: see it but you know she hasn't thanked anyone for helping with
Sondy: the move she hasn't apologized to anyone. This is not the first
Sondy: move that I've bailed her out of. So kind of like regretting that.
Sondy: And I'm like, she did give me her FedEx number. I'm like, I could
Sondy: just FedEx all this to her. And I know a lot of t-shirt quilters
Sondy: like hate, hate, hate taking on t-shirt quilt projects that
Sondy: other quilters have started. But like, I'm no amateur. I've
Sondy: made, I've made three t-shirt quilts one that a friend has paid me
Sondy: for I'm precise I'm accurate I am not sloppy a lot of people
Sondy: who start t-shirt quilt projects don't they haven't done a lot
Sondy: of reading they don't know what the common pitfalls are and I
Sondy: think anyone who got this uh pib project in a bin would not be
Sondy: unhappy yeah uh like given that I've done most of the most annoying
Sondy: parts of the work and given that it's been like nine months
Sondy: and she hasn't apologized to anyone
Nic: yeah
Sondy: I don't think it's worth having this taking up space in
Sondy: the house
Nic: that seems making sense to me
Sondy: yeah
Nic: that's
Sondy: but hey she didn't move nick I'm not joking
Sondy: t-shirts
Nic: that's a massive quilt
Sondy: and uh no it's not and but like in another
Sondy: dozen garments if each t-shirt is 12 by 12 inches that's a
Sondy: foot a queen size quilt is eight by eight feet that's 64
Sondy: shirts
Nic: yeah all right that works
Sondy: so it probably won't be king size but
Nic: yeah when you make a quilt what are you hoping it
Nic: does how are you hoping it's received and and does it land that
Nic: way usually
Sondy: two years ago two years ago a friend graduated from
Sondy: library school and she didn't know I was making her quilt but
Sondy: I'd actually been working on it while she was showing up at
Sondy: crafting group on zoom like right under her nose and she
Sondy: would she would practice the cello while I worked on this
Sondy: quilt on zoom like right under her nose and so the quilt was
Sondy: supposed to show up the day before graduation and it
Sondy: didn't but it showed up the day of graduation and her parents
Sondy: got these photos of her wearing her cap and gown opening this
Sondy: box not knowing what's in the box and just like the look on
Sondy: her face and you know just how excited she was and she she's
Sondy: just looking more and more excited and like the final
Sondy: photo is her like with it around her shoulders like a
Sondy: cloak and she's like spinning her you know head with the cap
Sondy: and the tassel and she looks ecstatic uh and I posted this on
Sondy: young and millennial quilters and they're you know every so
Sondy: often there's a post there with someone being like I made this
Sondy: quilt for you know my mother-in-law or my
Sondy: and you know she was so ungrateful and she sent it to
Sondy: the thrift store and like or this person was you know I'm
Sondy: like hey don't make quilts for people who are going to be
Sondy: ungracious right like don't do that but a lot of people
Sondy: were like right this is this is why we do what we do and
Sondy: this is the correct response to receiving a handmade quilt so
Sondy: people have been people have been pretty happy and you know
Sondy: I think I put some fun surprises in I made a t-shirt quilt for
Sondy: someone that like some of the t-shirts have like
Sondy: interesting tags one of them was uh the brand was junk food
Sondy: with like a heart-shaped american flag so you know I
Sondy: put labels on my quilts and I included that as one of the
Sondy: labels I'm like sure this is fun and weird
Nic: is there a quilt someone else made that you wish you'd
Nic: made
Sondy: there's a bunch of these like judy niemeyer quilt works
Sondy: quilts and I'm like man I really want to do that but I
Sondy: also don't want to spend 400 on fabric some of the some of the
Sondy: color schemes for some of the judy niemeyer quilts that
Sondy: people come up with I'm like I see why you're into that that
Sondy: is not to my liking but I would like to do I would like to do
Sondy: more of those but you really you have to put a lot of
Sondy: and time and effort into the planning because you can't just
Sondy: be like I'm gonna buy these fabrics when there's like
Sondy: fabric options they have a quilt planning tool where you
Sondy: can try out different fabric combinations color
Sondy: combinations the the fabric picker is a huge pain in the butt it's
Sondy: not just like let me filter by red like just let me put red
Sondy: here let me put blue here you know just just give me like
Sondy: a you know a hex code color picker right come on
Sondy: those exist there's apis for them
Nic: what do you know now about your quilting practice that you
Nic: couldn't have articulated when you started five six years ago
Sondy: I think it's really important for me not to cut all
Sondy: the fabric for a project before I start. I think it's really important
Sondy: for me to cut sections because if I get bored with a project or
Sondy: decide I want to do something a different way and I've got the
Sondy: fabric all cut, then that's a problem that, you know, it's hard
Sondy: to reuse it if it's been cut a certain way. For me, it's really
Sondy: important to put a lot of time and effort into precision and
Sondy: accuracy uh people like that's just you being a raging
Sondy: perfectionist I'm like well no there's a purpose to it and
Sondy: that is if you do things in these certain if I do things
Sondy: in these certain ways it's easier to get a it's easier to
Sondy: put things together it just makes subsequent steps easier
Sondy: so if you invest the time into getting things a certain way
Sondy: here it's those problems are not going to propagate out the
Sondy: way they would if I was just being like it'll be fine and I
Sondy: don't know like I look at I've got one quilt I've got a
Sondy: quilt pattern for something that I want to try and I'm like
Sondy: this is one of it's not like the most popular quilt pattern of
Sondy: like the last 10 or 15 years that's like the exploding hearts
Sondy: one that's all half squares triangles which like forget
Sondy: about it miss me on that one but it's the ranges quilt by
Sondy: modern handcraft and that one I'm like people have been
Sondy: putting this together and it's looked fine and people have
Sondy: like not been accurate with it they've not put in the effort to
Sondy: have it you know and it's turned out fine so like let's
Sondy: put it together and see what happens
Nic: you talk about perfectionism and that always
Nic: makes me think a long long time ago I was a chef and
Nic: people say chefs are artists and I kept saying I'm not an
Nic: artist I'm an artisan an artist has the luxury of
Nic: failure the artisan doesn't and I'm curious in view of your
Nic: raging perfectionism are you an artist
Nic: or are you an artisan
Sondy: yes um I think there's there's time you know that the
Sondy: first project I started that's still you know sitting in a
Sondy: bin upstairs that I don't know if it's a failure it'd be
Sondy: really great to finish it I don't know what finishing it is
Sondy: going to look like I think it's going to be a lot of time it's
Sondy: like oh I really want to take all these apart and sew them back
Sondy: together knowing what I know now because it would make it
Sondy: much easier blah blah blah um and you know is that a failure I
Sondy: don't know it's part of the learning process that's you
Sondy: know like you had to go to cooking school right you had
Sondy: to learn you had to fail a lot before you were a professional
Sondy: so there's a thousand hours yeah exactly um so there's that expectation that you have
Sondy: to learn somehow and you know there's you have to invest
Sondy: that I think, you know, it's just really important to understand
Sondy: that, you know, I'm not, I'm not punching out t-shirt quilts for
Sondy: a living. There are people who do that. And, you know, I could,
Sondy: I could, I guess, if I really wanted to, but I can't stand the
Sondy: smell of people's fabric softeners. You know, they can,
Sondy: they can make my headaches worse. So no thank you on that
Sondy: regard. And yeah so I think you know there's an this is a craft
Sondy: at some level uh I do it mostly for fun if it wasn't fun I
Sondy: would probably not do it I'll probably make a t-shirt quilt or
Sondy: two more for friends over over the years um I got I got one
Sondy: quilt finished last year part of what I mean I did have foot
Sondy: surgery at the end of February, but it was just, just didn't, just didn't sew a
Sondy: lot last year. There was, you know, the issues with machine,
Sondy: there was the issues with like my head and my neck. And that's,
Sondy: that's fine. It's a, my partner is a woodworker. He he wants to be
Sondy: a commercially successful woodworker. He has an artist
Sondy: background. He's, you know, painting oil painting. Uh you know
Sondy: he's got a lot of experience with color and creativity and
Sondy: he doesn't feel like he's got the space to fail right now
Sondy: yeah really that he's got the space to experiment because he
Sondy: wants to be able to make a living uh making art and you know
Sondy: so it's like well yeah I mean you've and you know an
Sondy: artist is worried about marketing and so I think you
Sondy: know at some point this is kind of is still sort of a
Sondy: hobby but I think it's it's both art and craft for me
Sondy: it's art and artisan and you know it's just fabric nick no
Sondy: one's gonna get food poisoning right like no one's gonna leave
Sondy: me a bad review on yelp or whatever right like it's I'm
Sondy: not gonna give anyone an upset stomach or send them to
Sondy: the emergency room it's just fabric
Nic: yeah well have you tried eating fabric it'll give you an
Nic: upset stomach
Sondy: yeah but if anyone's eating my quilts we have other
Sondy: problems nick right like I so I don't use scented scented um spray
Sondy: starch I don't use scented laundry detergent yeah I tell people
Sondy: not to wash things in scented detergent because those you
Sondy: know all that buildup can reduce the lifespan of the
Sondy: fibers in the quilt um I try to avoid using polyester thread
Sondy: when you know or polyester anything if I can avoid it my
Sondy: quilter prefers using polyester thread because it's stronger
Sondy: when it's wet and I'm using polyester thread to join these
Sondy: hexagons by hand because I know there's gonna be a lot of stress on these
Sondy: seams but you know I try to use cotton for everything and
Sondy: try to think about try to think about how things are going to be
Sondy: used the person using it um try to use good quilt batting yeah
Sondy: so hopefully yeah hopefully I don't give anyone an upset
Sondy: stomach or you know a migraine
Nic: yeah what do you wish people asked you about your work
Nic: that they don't
Sondy: that's a good question uh I think you know the point of
Sondy: like yeah like what is the toll on you like what is you
Sondy: know clearly this is something that compels you to to make and
Sondy: create but like what are what are the downsides like what is
Sondy: this doing to your body I think a lot of people don't kind of
Sondy: realize the brutalness of all of these quote unquote traditional
Sondy: women's crafts you know the things the the fiber arts
Sondy: that they're just really hard on a body and I don't think people
Sondy: realize that I don't think that people respect that and a lot
Sondy: of people see quilting as sort of like oh yeah this is this
Sondy: is what grandma does and you know but the average quilter is
Sondy: like a 60 something year old wasp um that that this is yeah
Sondy: like you know if you look at the quilt guild it's a whole
Sondy: bunch of you know gen x white femme presenting women in the
Sondy: quilt guild plus lu hernandez right like it's uh yeah like
Sondy: okay we have a couple people over 60 the demographics are
Sondy: not you know we're not like treated you know average
Sondy: demographic but it's still like what what makes this
Sondy: interesting and different and um and also like what are what are
Sondy: the hard aspects of this
Nic: yeah
Sondy: you know you hear about port like all the
Sondy: accommodations for knitting like how do you make knitting
Sondy: hurt less you know there's the portuguese knitting there's
Sondy: people who take uh tennis balls or makeup brushes and stick their
Sondy: crochet hooks in them
Nic: yeah
Sondy: so they can get a more ergonomic grip uh I want to look
Sondy: into getting a needle puller or um some more like finger
Sondy: protectors because like this is this is a lot of grip
Sondy: strength pulling this needle through and I think I can do
Sondy: better
Nic: you know what I've noticed makes a big difference do hide
Nic: homemade thimbles one on the thumb one on the index and
Nic: suddenly I don't need to grip the needle as strongly and
Nic: there's more friction so I can pull the needle easier
Sondy: yeah I've got this uh I think it might be doe hide
Sondy: it's a very soft
Nic: yeah um yeah that looks a little bit like what I do
Sondy: so it's nice but then like if I'm tying knots I have
Sondy: to take the thimble off and yeah I might want to learn how to tie knots
Sondy: better I don't know I check out books from the library on quilting I'm
Sondy: like certainly one of these quilt as you go books won't
Sondy: suck so many of these quilts okay I checked out a bunch of
Sondy: books on garment sewing from the library and all of the examples
Sondy: are stitched with like contrast thread on fabric but the quilt
Sondy: as you go community is like oh no
Nic: no
Sondy: any example quilt that we use in our books has to be a
Sondy: final quilt that we're gonna like want to give away to
Sondy: someone yes no contrasting thread the fabric is a solid
Sondy: so it's the same on the front as the back so you can't see like
Sondy: what's the front of the fabric and what's the back of the
Sondy: fabric oh well if you want to do it by machine just do it by
Sondy: machine it's like no this is a hand stitching example you
Sondy: got to give us the mystique I don't know I kind of like want
Sondy: to write a quilt as you go book of like you know quilt as you
Sondy: go that doesn't suck like
Nic: there's your next project in your downtime
Sondy: I I read through uh I don't know I was reading through the
Sondy: alumni magazine of where I went to undergrad and I was like
Sondy: damn I need to write a book I don't know what this book's
Sondy: gonna be but like salty quilting
Nic: now you do hey Sondy I really have enjoyed this
Nic: conversation um I want to ask you one last thing um is there
Nic: something that you would like to say that I haven't covered that
Nic: ties your quilting with your disability
Sondy: I think those of us who've been forced
Sondy: to look at the world differently,
Sondy: I think we get to make more interesting choices about
Sondy: what we make. Those of us who can't sort of take
Sondy: everything for granted, whether it's our bodies or
Sondy: how society lets us move through the world. I think there's a lot
Sondy: of disability inherent in quilting. I think there are a lot
Sondy: more disabled quilters out there than folks may admit to
Sondy: themselves that, you know, especially for hand stitching,
Sondy: right? Like if you can't sit, you know, there's hand stitching
Sondy: available. Or if you can't, you know, sit up at a machine,
Sondy: you know, if you, you know, there's so interesting like
Sondy: you know posts on these facebook groups of like hey I
Sondy: can't do this or I need I need a thing that does that and you
Sondy: know all the people who are happy to hop in and be like
Sondy: yeah here's an accommodation for that here's an
Sondy: accommodation to that or like I've got the same thing and it
Sondy: sucks like it's uh I appreciate and I know that's
Sondy: not like terribly really personal. But I think there's just so much of,
Sondy: you know, a lot of us who are disabled can't take, we can't
Sondy: take things for granted. We have to think, we have to
Sondy: question, we have to create new ways of moving
Sondy: through the world and interacting with things. And, you
Sondy: know, as you create something that no one else has before, I
Sondy: think that's a lot of fun. You know, there can be a
Sondy: playful aspect there's a lot of joy there and that's something
Sondy: that I've really appreciated about disability communities is
Sondy: seeing you know thriving disabled joy in a way that
Sondy: society society doesn't want you to society you know and
Sondy: you know quilt quilting wants you you know buying other
Sondy: people's patterns and using other people's ideas and not
Sondy: like and you know there's a lot of folks who are like yeah
Sondy: there's space in the quilt industry for people to come up
Sondy: with their own patterns and to come up with their own things.
Sondy: That, you know, not everyone, that it's, you know, it's hard for me,
Sondy: especially to keep like a whole bunch of thoughts in my head at
Sondy: once. And so to have time and to be able to read and to think and
Sondy: to put different things together is really validating.
Sondy: That's something that's been really hard for me as a
Sondy: scientist to come up with my own research ideas to do to you know read
Sondy: through the literature I really have never enjoyed that aspect
Sondy: or I've never like kind of figured out the right
Sondy: accommodations to be able to do that or to ask interesting
Sondy: questions and so to have a thing in my life where I feel
Sondy: like I can do that is uh it's really it's really great you
Sondy: know someday there'll be a you know science support and
Sondy: facilitation position where my weird weird experiences will be
Sondy: rewarded um but we haven't gotten there yet
Nic: yeah hey I just thought of something we you mentioned
Nic: microgravity earlier and we didn't come back to that now I
Nic: know from past conversations that you've actually been on
Nic: microgravity flights doing experiments which sounds like a
Nic: lot of fun what would quilting look like in microgravity or no
Sondy: funny you should ask that astronaut karen nyberg has
Sondy: quilted in space
Nic: how awesome is that
Sondy: yeah yeah it's pretty cool um she even has two lines of
Sondy: quilting fabric uh called earth views one is prints that are
Sondy: really cool I actually have the whole set I'm gonna do a
Sondy: bigger hex bigger hexagons that have been like traditionally
Sondy: machine pieced for a friend out of those she does um like mars
Sondy: mission work where she you know her she works on one of
Sondy: these cameras that points down at mars and gets really cool
Sondy: landscape aerial landscape photos of mars and then karen's
Sondy: next fabric line is going to be batiks if it's I think it's
Sondy: already come out
Nic: cool
Sondy: so yeah someone someone someone's done that
Sondy: there's been there's been quilts in space if I ever uh get an llc
Sondy: for my t-shirt quilts it'll be quilts in space awesome like muppets pigs
Sondy: in space
Nic: Sondy thank you so much for talking to me about
Nic: quilting about disability about the work between um where
Nic: can people find you or more about your quilting
Sondy: I have not really been active on social media in a
Sondy: while so uh if you happen to be in a you know the same discord or
Sondy: slack that I'm in um look for me there some maybe someday I'll
Sondy: post things on intergalactic cactus I think I have a blue
Sondy: sky for quilting but yeah you're just gonna have to
Sondy: social media has just not been fun for me so
Nic: yeah I can relate to that Yeah, so I've just
Sondy: enjoying putting my time and effort into smaller
Sondy: communities and doing the thing.
Nic: Awesome. Dr. Alessandra Springman, quilter, scientist,
Nic: and a good friend. Thank you.
Sondy: Thank you, Nick. You're the best.
Nic: That's it. I'm Nick Steenhout. This is The Work
Nic: Between. If this sounds like your kind of conversation,
Nic: subscribe, and I'll see you in the next episode.